Roles in the Dental Healthcare Team
Clinical Roles:
Dentist:
Diagnoses and treats oral diseases, creates treatment plans, and oversees the dental team to ensure coordinated care.
Dental Hygienist:
Focuses on preventive care, including cleanings and fluoride treatments, while educating patients about effective oral hygiene practices.
Dental Assistant:
Supports the dentist during procedures, manages infection control, ensures patient comfort, and prepares dental materials.
Lab Technician:
Creates custom dental prosthetics, such as crowns, bridges, and dentures, ensuring that they fit properly and meet patient needs.
Administrative Roles:
Receptionist:
Manages appointments, patient inquiries, and maintains patient records, serving as the first point of contact for visitors.
Office Manager:
Oversees daily operations of the dental practice, manages staff, ensures regulatory compliance, and enhances office efficiency.
Treatment Coordinator:
Assists patients in understanding treatment options and financial commitments, while coordinating scheduling and addressing patient concerns.